Blog post - Powerful Medical case study (#3789)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: astro/src/content/blog/powerful-medical.mdx

---
publish_date: 2025-06-26
title: "Powerful Medical Replaced AWS Cognito with Auth That's Theirs... Not Rented"
description: Learn how Powerful Medical replaced AWS Cognito with FusionAuth's single-tenant authentication to meet healthcare compliance requirements and accelerate enterprise customer onboarding. Discover why engineering leaders choose auth that's theirs, not rented.
authors: Brad McCarty
image: /img/blogs/powerful-medical/powerful-medical.png

> tags: HIPAA, healthcare, migration, Cognito, SAML, OIDC, SCIM, MFA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: HIPAA, healthcare, migration, Cognito, SAML, OIDC, SCIM, MFA, Auth0, on-prem
```

> "Healthcare is a particularly challenging field to tackle and deliver products in. Whether it is due to data protection requirements, regulatory/legal constraints, unique usability challenges, or the nuances of hospital infrastructure, designing solutions for this space requires broad understanding and out of the box thinking."

The challenge was compounded by modern engineering realities. Powerful Medical's team was migrating to containerized, cloud-native architectures while maintaining the flexibility to deploy on-premise for compliance-heavy healthcare customers. They needed authentication that could work seamlessly across development, testing, and production environments while integrating into their CI/CD pipelines.

![FusionAuth's seamless developer experience](/img/blogs/powerful-medical/devex.png)

> ## Why AWS Cognito Couldn't Scale to Enterprise Healthcare

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why AWS Cognito Couldn't Scale for Enterprise Healthcare
```

## The Search for Auth That's Theirs, Not Rented

Faced with these constraints, Rovder embarked on an exhaustive evaluation of authentication providers. But this wasn't a typical vendor selection process—it was a comprehensive technical validation to ensure the chosen solution could meet every requirement of their demanding healthcare customers.

> "We investigated basically all of the established IdP providers to see if they support all the features we anticipated we would need, and we actually tested out the features on all of them to see whether they live up to their documentation.”

Their requirements list reflected the complex needs of both modern engineering teams and healthcare enterprises:

**Core Technical Requirements:**

- SAML and OIDC support
- SCIM (syncing users and groups, plus deprovisioning)
- Multi-factor authentication
- Multiple authentication methods (username/password, email/magic link)
- Customizable password requirements
- Multi-tenant architecture with tenant-specific authentication rules
- Source Code Escrow for enterprise compliance

**The Non-Negotiable**: On-premise deployability

> **The Unique Need**: Support for the same user across multiple tenants (critical for their specific healthcare workflows)

Reviewer: How did we handle this? It isn't regularly supported though there are workarounds.

By offloading authentication complexity to FusionAuth, Rovder's engineering team can focus on developing the core cardiovascular diagnostic features that differentiate Powerful Medical in the market.

### Universal Customer Compatibility

> "The purpose of FusionAuth was to make sure none of our potential customers would have an issue with the authentication flows/protocols supported by our platform. In that regard I can say that it definitely lived up to the expectations."

This universal compatibility directly impacts revenue by ensuring authentication never becomes a barrier to closing enterprise deals.

## The FusionAuth Advantage: Architecture, Support, and Partnership

Beyond technical capabilities, Rovder was impressed by FusionAuth's approach to customer partnership:

### Enterprise-Grade Documentation and Support

> > "The quality of the available documentation and support we get from the team. I work with a wider range of SaaS platforms daily and I am often surprised by the lack of documentation they provide. With FusionAuth we have the exact opposite experience - the documentation is usually very clear and easy to follow."

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Rovder also loved the documentation and support.

> "I work with a wide range of SaaS platforms daily and I am often surprised by the lack of documentation they provide. With FusionAuth we have the exact opposite experience - the documentation is usually very clear and easy to follow."
```

The original is kinda weird. Maybe the above?

Reviewer: also note that I changed 'a wider' to 'a wide'.

> For engineering leaders managing complex implementations, comprehensive documentation accelerates development and reduces risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For engineering leaders with complex implementations, comprehensive documentation accelerates development, improves developer happiness, and reduces risk.
```

## Key Benefits for Technology Leaders Building Enterprise Applications

**Single-Tenant Architecture**: Eliminates noisy neighbor problems and provides the isolation healthcare customers demand

**Downloadable Deployment**: Enables seamless integration into development, testing, and CI/CD workflows

**Migration Excellence**: Preserves user experience during platform transitions with tools like password-free migrations

**Universal Protocol Support**: Ensures authentication never blocks enterprise deals

**On-Premise Capability**: Opens doors to the most security-conscious (and often highest-value) enterprise customers

**Transparent Partnership**: Dedicated support channels and comprehensive documentation accelerate implementation

**Cost Predictability**: Clear pricing model that scales with business growth, not authentication complexity

## The Bottom Line: Auth That Enables Growth

**Simon Rovder's assessment**:

> "Working with FusionAuth is overall a very nice experience and I am happy to continue working with partners with whom the cooperation is as smooth."

> For technology leaders building enterprise applications that need robust authentication without excessive complexity, Powerful Medical's journey demonstrates how FusionAuth can transform authentication from a technical challenge into a competitive advantage. [Schedule a demo](/contact) to see how FusionAuth can help your team deliver auth that's yours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For technology leaders building enterprise applications that need robust authentication without excessive complexity, Powerful Medical's journey demonstrates how FusionAuth can transform authentication from a technical challenge into a competitive advantage. 

[Schedule a demo](/contact) to see how FusionAuth can help your team deliver auth that's yours.
```
